Ability Stats:
Instead of making base stats a linear scale of bad to good, instead we make them a 
balance of opposed ideals.

Social Stat (Personality) -> balance of introspection and extraversion.
Physical Stat (Build) -> balance of dexterity to strength
Mentality Stat (Mentality) -> balance of book smart to street smart

For the social aspect, not every person in real life responds the same way to 
boisterous, outgoing personalities. A reserved person is likely going to react 
more strongly to an outgoing person, and vice versa. A character who adopts an 
overwhelmingly outgoing personality will not always be able to talk their way 
into or out of situations. NPCs that fall on the instrospective side of the 
scale will be more resistant to smooth talking. The reverse is that characters 
who are reserved will be less likely to move the force of personality of an 
outgoing NPC, but may find it easier to talk with other reserved NPCs.

Our physical stat balances between having high dexterity and having incredible strength.
A player who wishes to be competent in both will sacrifice excelling in either. 
Certain armor, items, weapons, etc will have requisites for their use based on a 
character's dexterity or strength. The stats of these items may also vary 
depending on this ability score.

Our mentality stat aims to balance between the classic interpretation of 
Intelligence versus Wisdom. A character in the middle of the scale will 
be reasonably book smart and have some real world wisdom. Characters that 
wish to have high intelligence sacrifice some of that real world street smart, 
and vice versa.

The idea behind having the stats designed this way is to push the idea that 
characters do not have to excel in every stat to be fun, viable, interesting, 
or powerful. The characters should never feel that they are inferior to a 
"regular" NPC. Imagine if a character had a physical stat that leaned all 
the way to the dexterity end. This does not imply that they are weak. Instead, 
it would mean that they had a typically average strength, comparable to any 
straightforward passerby in the street would possess. If that physical stat 
sat dead center on the scale, that character would have superior strength 
and dexterity to any average person. They simply would not reach the full 
potential of a hero-type character for either.

Mechanically, each player has 5 points to spend in Build, Mentality, and Personality. 
Build is divided into Strength and Dexterity, 
Mentality is divided into Wisdom and Academics, 
and Personality is divided into Reflection and Extraversion.
Each of the six ability areas has a minimum score of 1 and a maximum score of 10. 

The base for the following skills match their parent. Each class may get 
additional points to skills. (d20; 10-easy; 15-medium; 20-hard)

Athletics 	- Strength  	(Climbing, Swimming, Jumping)
Maneuver  	- Dexterity 	(Riding, Control/Handle Object)
Recall 		- Academics    	(history, arcane, knowledge) 
Survival 	- Wisdom		(Nature, Tracking, Animal Handling) 
Perform 	- Extraversion	(Distract)
Infer 		- Reflection	(Perception, Psychology) 

The base for the following blended skills are the combined total of their parents. 
(d20; 15-easy; 20-medium; 25-hard)

Surreptition 	- Dexterity & Wisdom		(stealth, hiding, sleight of hand, lock picking) 
Spell Efficacy 	- Dexterity & Academics
Linguistics	 	- Extraversion & Academics	(Language, Persuasion, Diplomacy, Bluff)
Intimidation 	- Strength & Extraversion
Insight 		- Reflection & Wisdom
Evaluate 	 	- Academics & Reflection	(Investigate, Appraise, Value) 

Specializations or Heritages may get additional points to these skills.
Every 5th level, the character may increase 1 of the base 6 stats by 1.
A character's maximum level is 30.

Health and Attack Damage and Reduction are driven by Strength
Accuracy is driven by Dexterity
Luck is driven by Wisdom


Movement = DEX * 5 + 10 (in feet)
Health = STR * 3 + lvl
Mage Points = lvl * 2
Luck = 1/2 * Wisdom rounded down (min. 1)

Luck is a resource that the player can spend to attempt to reroll an attack, maneuver or skill
or force an opponent to reroll an attack or maneuver. You cannot use a Luck point to reroll another Luck.

Health regenerates at 1 point per hour, if no major wound.
Mage Points regenerate at 1 point per 2 hours, if no major wound.
Luck regenerates at 1 point per day.

Major Wound: 1 major wound = no health regeneration, no mage point regeneration
 2 major wound = movement reduced by 10 feet, -2 penalty to STR and DEX
 3 major wound = -2 penalty to ACA & WIS
 4 major wound = unconscious
 5 major wound = death
 You can remove 1 major wound naturally by taking a night's rest.


Statuses:
-blind
-deaf
-unlucky
-poisoned
-paralyzed
-stunned
-slowed