Ability Stats:
Instead of making base stats a linear scale of bad to good, instead we make them a balance of opposed ideals.

Social Stat -> balance of reserved to outgoing
Physical Stat (Build) -> balance of dexterity to strength
Mentality Stat-> balance of book smart to street smart

For the social aspect, not every person in real life responds the same way to boisterous, outgoing personalities.
A reserved person is likely going to react more strongly to an outgoing person, and vice versa.
A character who adopts an overwhelmingly outgoing personality will not always be able to talk their way into or out of situations.
NPCs that fall on the reserved side of the scale will be more resistant to their smooth talking.
The reverse is that characters who are reserved will be less likely to move the force of personality of an outgoing NPC, but may find it
easier to talk with other reserved NPCs.

Our physical stat balances between having high dexterity and having incredible strength.
A player who wishes to be competent in both will sacrifice excelling in either. Certain
armor, items, weapons, etc will have requisites for their use based on a character's dexterity
or strength. The stats of these items may also vary depending on this ability score.

Our mentality stat aims to balance between the classic interpretation of Intelligence versus Wisdom.
A character in the middle of the scale will be reasonably book smart and have some real world wisdom. 
Characters that wish to have high intelligence sacrifice some of that real world street smart, and vice versa.

The idea behind having the stats designed this way is to push the idea that characters do not have to excel in every stat 
to be fun, viable, interesting, or powerful. The characters should never feel that they are inferior to a "regular" NPC. 
Imagine if a character had a physical stat that leaned all the way to the dexterity end. This does not imply that they are weak.
Instead, it would mean that they had a typically average strength, comparable to any straightforward passerby in the street would
possess. If that physical stat sat dead center on the scale, that character would have superior strength and dexterity to any 
average person. They simply would not reach the full potential of a hero-type character for either.